Create Latency Control Code Sample (#6)
shuoniu-intel/oneAPI-samples: DirectProgramming/DPC++FPGA/Tutorials/Features/latency_control/README.md

> # Latency Control

Reviewer: Once you are happy with your README changes, please ask Eric Koeck to go over it :)

Author: Will do :)

> This FPGA tutorial demonstrates how to set latency constraints between accessing functions of side effects that can be observed outside the kernel. Side effects here include pipes and global LSUs, and accessing functions of side effects refer to pipe reads/writes and LSU loads/stores.

Reviewer: I'm not sure to understand what this feature does from this paragraph.
I'm sure I'll understand better after reading more about it but, my understanding at this point, after reading this paragraph a few times is: 
The latency control allows the user to set a latency contraint on specific operations such as pipe and global memory read/writes.
Is that correct? 
If so I feel like we can avoid saying "accessing functions of side effects".
What does the "observed outside the kernel" information brings?

Here is a suggestion: 
```suggestion
This FPGA tutorial demonstrates how to set latency constraints to pipes and LSUs accesses.
```

Author: > The latency control allows the user to set a latency contraint on specific operations such as pipe and global memory read/writes. Is that correct?

That is correct.

> What does the "observed outside the kernel" information brings?

It rules out internal pipes (both ends are in the same kernel) and internal LSU.

The [oneAPI DPC++ FPGA Optimization Guide](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-fpga-optimization-guide) is the reference manual for targeting FPGAs through DPC++. <br>
The [oneAPI Programming Guide](https://software.intel.com/en-us/oneapi-programming-guide) is a general resource for target-independent DPC++ programming.

| Optimized for                     | Description
---                                 |---
| OS                                | Linux* Ubuntu* 18.04/20.04, RHEL*/CentOS* 8, SUSE* 15; Windows* 10
| Hardware                          | Intel® Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA <br> Intel® FPGA Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX) <br> Intel® FPGA 3rd party / custom platforms with oneAPI support <br> *__Note__: Intel® FPGA PAC hardware is only compatible with Ubuntu 18.04*
| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++ Compiler <br> Intel® FPGA Add-On for oneAPI Base Toolkit

> | What you will learn               | How to set latency constraints between accessing functions of side effects.

Reviewer: Similarly, while overlooking a tutorial to know if it will be of interest, I feel like this description is hard to grasp.

Author: I will change it to your suggested statement above.

| Time to complete                  | 15 minutes

## Purpose

> This tutorial shows how to set latency constraints between accessing functions of side effects that can be observed outside the kernel. Side effects here include pipes and global LSUs, and accessing functions of side effects refer to pipe reads/writes and LSU loads/stores.

Reviewer: This is the same paragraph as the first one

Author: Will change it to your suggested statement.

> The compiler strives to achieve the latency constraints, and it errors out if some constraints cannot be satisfied. For example, if one constraint specifies function A should be scheduled after function B, while another constraint specifies function B should be scheduled after function A, then that set of constraints is unsatisfiable.

Reviewer: This does not really fit in the "Purpose" section

Author: I think I can move or summarize this paragraph into the "Rules and Limitations" section below.

### Use Model

> **Note**: The APIs described in this section are experimental. Future versions of latency controls may change these APIs in ways that are incompatible with the version described here.

Reviewer: In that case, you'll have to move the tutorial to ```DirectProgramming/DPC++FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/latency_control```

Author: Will do.

> Latency controls APIs are provided on member functions `read()` and `write()` of class `ext::intel::experimental::pipe` and on member functions `load()` and `store()` of class `ext::intel::experimental::lsu`. Other than the latency controls support, the experimental `pipe` and `lsu` are identical to `ext::intel::pipe` and `ext::intel::lsu`. The experimental `pipe` and `lsu` are also provide by <sycl/ext/intel/fpga_extensions.hpp>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Latency controls APIs are provided on member functions `read()` and `write()` of class `ext::intel::experimental::pipe` and on member functions `load()` and `store()` of class `ext::intel::experimental::lsu`. Other than the latency controls support, the experimental `pipe` and `lsu` are identical to `ext::intel::pipe` and `ext::intel::lsu`. The experimental `pipe` and `lsu` are also provided by <sycl/ext/intel/fpga_extensions.hpp>.
```

Reviewer: Don't you need to include a specific folder at compile time for this to work?

Author: `#include <sycl/ext/intel/fpga_extensions.hpp>` is sufficient, just like other FPGA extensions.

> Those member functions listed above can take in a property list instance (`ext::oneapi::experimental::properties`) as a function argument, which can contain latency controls properties `latency_anchor_id` and `latency_constraint`.

Reviewer: Just out of curiosity, does this extends the ```cl::sycl::property_list``` class?

Author: They are defined as properties of `sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties`. I'm not sure if this is the property list you are thinking of.
And btw, here is the PR that added these two properties: https://github.com/intel/llvm/pull/5993

Reviewer: thanks!

> * `ext::intel::experimental::latency_anchor_id<N>`, where `N` is a signed integer: An label that associates with the current function, which can be referenced by `latency_constraint` properties on other functions to define relative latency constraints. Functions which have this property will be referred to as "labeled functions".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ext::intel::experimental::latency_anchor_id<N>`, where `N` is a signed integer: A label that associates with the current function, which can be referenced by `latency_constraint` properties on other functions to define relative latency constraints. Functions which have this property will be referred to as "labeled functions".
```

Reviewer: I'm having a hard time parsing that paragraph, let me rewrite it the way I understood it, and let me know if that is equivalent:
```suggestion
* `ext::intel::experimental::latency_anchor_id<N>`, where `N` is a signed integer: A label than can be associated with the pipes and LSUs functions listed above. This label can then be referenced by the `latency_constraint` properties to define relative latency constraints. Functions with this property will be referred to as "labeled functions".
```

Author: Your rephrasing does look clearer and accurate!

> * `ext::intel::experimental::latency_constraint<A, B, C>`: A tuple of three values which causes the current function to act as an endpoint of a latency constraint relative to a different labeled function. Functions which have this property will be referred to as "constrained functions".

Reviewer: Again, I feel like this is hard to parse, let me try to rephrase it the way I understood it:
```suggestion
* `ext::intel::experimental::latency_constraint<A, B, C>`: A constraint than can be associated with the pipes and LSUs functions listed above. It provides a latency constraint between this function and a different labeled function. Functions which have this property will be referred to as "constrained functions".
```

Author: Will update!

  * `A` is a signed integer: The label of the labeled function which is constrained relative to the constrained function.
  * `B` is an enum value: The type of constraint, can be `latency_control_type::exact` (exact latency), `latency_control_type::max` (maximum latency), and `latency_control_type::min` (minimum latency).
  * `C` is a signed integer: The relative clock cycle difference between the labeled function and the constrained function, that the constraint should infer subject to the type of constraint (exact/max/main).

### Simple Code Example

> Latency controls on pipes. Also demonstrating a function acting as both labeled function and constrained function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This first example shows how to use latency controls on pipes. It also uses a function acting as both labeled function and constrained function:
```

Author: Will update

```cpp
using namespace sycl;
using Pipe1 = ext::intel::experimental::pipe<class PipeClass1, int, 8>;
using Pipe2 = ext::intel::experimental::pipe<class PipeClass2, int, 8>;
using Pipe3 = ext::intel::experimental::pipe<class PipeClass2, int, 8>;
...
// In kernel:
// The following read has a label 0.
int value = Pipe1::read(ext::oneapi::experimental::properties(
    ext::intel::experimental::latency_anchor_id<0>));

// The following write occurs exactly 2 cycles after the label-0 function, i.e.,
// the read above. Also, it has a label 1.
Pipe2::write(
    value,
    ext::oneapi::experimental::properties(
        ext::intel::experimental::latency_anchor_id<1>,
        ext::intel::experimental::latency_constraint<
            0, ext::intel::experimental::latency_control_type::exact, 2>));

// The following write occurs at least 2 cycles after the label-1 function, i.e.,
// the write above.
Pipe3::write(
    value, ext::oneapi::experimental::properties(
               ext::intel::experimental::latency_constraint<
                   1, ext::intel::experimental::latency_control_type::min, 2>));
```

> Latency controls on LSUs. Also demonstrating using a negative relative cycle number in `latency_constraint`, which means the constrained function is scheduled before the associated labeled function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This second example shows how to use latency controls on LSUs. It also uses a negative relative cycle number in `latency_constraint`, which means the constrained function is scheduled before the associated labeled function:
```

Author: Will update.

```cpp
using namespace sycl;
using BurstCoalescedLSU = sycl::ext::intel::experimental::lsu<
    sycl::ext::intel::experimental::burst_coalesce<false>,
    sycl::ext::intel::experimental::statically_coalesce<false>>;
...
// In kernel:
// The following load occurs at most 5 cycles before the label-2 function,
// i.e., the store below.
int value = BurstCoalescedLSU::load(
    input_ptr,
    sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties(
        ext::intel::experimental::latency_constraint<
            2, ext::intel::experimental::latency_control_type::max, -5>));

> // The following store has a lable 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// The following store has a label 2.
```

Author: Will fix.

BurstCoalescedLSU::store(output_ptr, value,
                         sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties(
                             ext::intel::experimental::latency_anchor_id<2>));
```

### Rules and Limitations
* `latency_anchor_id` must be non-negative
* `latency_anchor_id` must be a unique number within the whole design

> * Two endpoints of a constraint must meet one of the following conditions:

Reviewer: What do you mean by endpoint here?

Author: Good point, I probably should specifically say "the labeled function and the constrained function of a constraint".

  * Both endpoints are not in any cluster

>   * Both endpoints are in the same cluster

Reviewer: What is a cluster? Should the users know what a cluster is?

Author: > What is a cluster?

It's a stall-free cluster.

> Should the users know what a cluster is?

I assume so, since cluster is a concept we expose to users in the `report.html`.

Reviewer: This is just a general remark but I feel like this is not a super intuitive limitation: The user must compile his code and know what parts of his code are in the same clusters before applying constraints. 
I'm guessing the compiler gives a nice error message when you try to compile a code that does not satisfies these conditions

Reviewer: Maybe you can add a sentence saying that these clusters can be identified in the system viewer part of the reports.

Author: > Maybe you can add a sentence saying that these clusters can be identified in the system viewer part of the reports.

Good point, I can add this.

## Key Concepts

> * How to set latency constraints between accessing functions of side effects

Reviewer: By now you know I'm not a big fan of this sentence :)
You can also add "How to confirm that the compiler respected the latency control directive"

Author: Will update :)

shorter path, for example c:\samples\build. You can then run cmake from that
directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

### Troubleshooting
If an error occurs, you can get more details by running `make` with
the `VERBOSE=1` argument:
``make VERBOSE=1``
For more comprehensive troubleshooting, use the Diagnostics Utility for
Intel® oneAPI Toolkits, which provides system checks to find missing
dependencies and permissions errors.
[Learn more](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/diagnostic-utility-user-guide/top.html).

 ### In Third-Party Integrated Development Environments (IDEs)

You can compile and run this tutorial in the Eclipse* IDE (in Linux*) and the Visual Studio* IDE (in Windows*). For instructions, refer to the following link: [Intel® oneAPI DPC++ FPGA Workflows on Third-Party IDEs](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/intel-oneapi-dpcpp-fpga-workflow-on-ide.html)

## Examining the Reports
Locate `report.html` in the `latency_control_report.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in any of Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.

> 1. Navigate to Schedule Viewer (Views > Schedule Viewer). In this view, you can find the load and the store that have latency constraint and then you can check the scheduled latency between them. The scheduled latency should reflect the applied latency control in the design source code. You can also verify the latency control parameters in the Details pane for the load and store nodes.

Reviewer: "You can also verify the latency control parameters in the Details pane for the load and store nodes." from the system viewer? Is this the same as what is mentioned below?

Author: Yes, users can check the Details pane on both Schedule Viewer and System Viewer.
